[DOCS] Updates guide to exporting/importing models (#1498)
elastic/stack-docs: docs/en/stack/ml/df-analytics/ml-trained-models.asciidoc

--------------------------------------------------
curl -s -u username:password \
  -X GET "http://localhost:9200/_ml/trained_models" \
    | jq -C -r '.trained_model_configs[].model_id'
--------------------------------------------------
// NOTCONSOLE

[source, bash]
--------------------------------------------------
flights1-1607953694065
flights0-1607953585123
lang_ident_model_1
--------------------------------------------------
// NOTCONSOLE

In this example, you are exporting the model with ID `flights1-1607953694065`.
--

2. Using `curl` from the command line, again use the
{ref}/get-trained-models.html[get trained models API] to export the entire model
definition and save it to a JSON file.
+
--
[source, bash]
--------------------------------------------------
curl -u username:password \
  -X GET "http://localhost:9200/_ml/trained_models/flights1-1607953694065?exclude_generated=true&include=definition&decompress_definition=false" \
    | jq '.trained_model_configs[0] | del(.model_id)' \
    > flights1.json
--------------------------------------------------
// NOTCONSOLE

A few observations:

* Exporting models requires using `curl` or a similar tool that can *stream*

> the model over HTTP into a file. If you use the {kib} Console, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the model over HTTP into a file. If you use the {kib} Console, the
```

browser might be unresponsive due to the size of exported models.

* Note the query parameters that are used during export. These parameters are necessary to
export the model in a way that it can later be imported again and used for
inference.

* You must unnest the JSON object by one level to extract just the model
definition. You must also remove the existing model ID in order to not have
ID collisions when you import again. You can do these steps using `jq` inline or
alternatively it can be done to the resulting JSON file after downloading using
`jq` or other tools.
--

> 3. Import the saved model using `curl` to upload the JSON file to the {ref}/

Reviewer: This URL is failing in the output, I think maybe it has to be all on one line:
```suggestion
3. Import the saved model using `curl` to upload the JSON file to the
```

> create-trained-models.html[created trained model API]. When you specify the URL,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{ref}/create-trained-models.html[created trained model API]. When you specify the URL,
```

> {ref}/create-trained-models.html[created trained model API]. When you specify the URL,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{ref}/put-trained-models.html[created trained model API]. When you specify the URL,
```

are limited in size by the
{ref}/modules-http.html#_http_settings[http.max_content_length]
global configuration value in Elasticsearch. The default value is `100mb` and
may need to be increased depending on the size of model being exported.

* Connection timeouts can occur when either the source or destination
cluster is under load, or when model sizes are very large. Increasing
https://ec.haxx.se/usingcurl/usingcurl-timeouts[timeout configurations] for
`curl` (e.g. `curl --max-time 600`) or your client of choice will help
alleviate the problem. In rare cases you may need to reduce load on the
Elasticsearch cluster, for example by adding nodes.
--

[discrete]
[[import-external-model-to-es]]
== Importing an external model to the {stack}

It is possible to import a model to your {es} cluster even if the model is not
trained by Elastic {dfanalytics}.

You can find an example of training a model, then importing it to {es} with
`eland` in the
https://eland.readthedocs.io/en/latest/examples/introduction_to_eland_webinar.html#Machine-Learning-Demo[eland machine learning demo].
The example uses Python to train, save and import the model. However, you can

> use any client as long as the model conforms to the https://github.com/elastic/

Reviewer: This URL also fails in the output, so I think it needs to be on one line too:
```suggestion
use any client as long as the model conforms to the 
```

> ml-json-schemas[schema].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
https://github.com/elastic/ml-json-schemas[schema].
```

<<ml-inference>>.

You can also supply trained models that are not created by {dfanalytics-job} but
adhere to the appropriate
https://github.com/elastic/ml-json-schemas[JSON schema]. If you want to use
these trained models in the {stack}, you must store them in {es} documents by
using the {ref}/put-trained-models.html[create trained models API].

In {kib}, you can view and manage your trained models within *{ml-app}* > *Data
Frame Analytics*:

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/trained-model-management.png["List of trained models in the {ml-app} app in {kib}"]

Alternatively, you can use APIs like
{ref}/get-trained-models.html[get trained models] and
{ref}/delete-trained-models.html[delete trained models].

[discrete]
[[export-import]]
== Exporting and importing models

Models trained in Elasticsearch are portable and can be transferred between
clusters. This is particularly useful when models are trained in isolation from
the cluster where they are used for inference. The following instructions show
how to use https://curl.se/[`curl`] and https://stedolan.github.io/jq/[`jq`] to

> export a model as JSON and import to another cluster.

Reviewer: I think there's a word missing here"
```suggestion
export a model as JSON and import it to another cluster.
```

> 1. Given a model _name_, find the model _ID_. Using `curl` we can call the

Reviewer: We try to avoid "we" unless it's a tutorial, which this isn't. Use "you" instead:
```suggestion
1. Given a model _name_, find the model _ID_. You can use `curl` to call the
```

> {ref}/get-trained-models.html[Get Trained Model API] to list all models with

Reviewer: We typically don't capitalize link titles:
```suggestion
{ref}/get-trained-models.html[get trained model API] to list all models with
```

their IDs.
+
--
[source, bash]
--------------------------------------------------
curl -s -u elastic:changeme \
  -X GET "http://localhost:9200/_ml/trained_models" \
    | jq . -C \
    | more
--------------------------------------------------
// NOTCONSOLE

> If you wish to show just the model IDs available, use `jq` to select a subset.

Reviewer: Not a big deal, but wish is not something we tend to use in the docs:
```suggestion
If you want to show just the model IDs available, use `jq` to select a subset.
```

[source, bash]
--------------------------------------------------
curl -s -u elastic:changeme \
  -X GET "http://localhost:9200/_ml/trained_models" \
    | jq -C -r '.trained_model_configs[].model_id'
--------------------------------------------------
// NOTCONSOLE

[source, bash]
--------------------------------------------------
flights1-1607953694065
flights0-1607953585123
lang_ident_model_1
--------------------------------------------------
// NOTCONSOLE

> In our case, we would like to export the model with ID `flights1-1607953694065`.

Reviewer: Per above, let's try replacing "we" with "you".  For example:
```suggestion
In this example, you are exporting the model with ID `flights1-1607953694065`.
```

--

2. Using `curl` from the command line, again use the

> {ref}/get-trained-models.html[Get Trained Model API] to export the entire model

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{ref}/get-trained-models.html[get trained models API] to export the entire model
```

definition and save it to a JSON file.
+
--
[source, bash]
--------------------------------------------------
curl -u elastic:changeme \
  -X GET "http://localhost:9200/_ml/trained_models/flights1-1607953694065?exclude_generated=true&include=definition&decompress_definition=false" \
    | jq '.trained_model_configs[0] | del(.model_id)' \
    > flights1.json
--------------------------------------------------
// NOTCONSOLE

A few observations:

* Exporting models requires using `curl` or a similar tool that can *stream*

> the model over HTTP into a file. Using the https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/

Reviewer: I think the Console is well enough known that you don't need to link it here:
```suggestion
the model over HTTP into a file. If you use the {kib} Console, 
```

> kibana/current/console-kibana.html[Kibana Dev Tools console] will cause the

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> browser to become unresponsive due to the size of exported models.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
browser might be unresponsive due to the size of exported models.
```

> * Note the query parameters that are used during export. These are necessary to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Note the query parameters that are used during export. These parameters are necessary to
```

export the model in a way that it can later be imported again and used for
inference.

> * We need to unnest the JSON object by one level to extract just the model

Reviewer: This is another paragraph where ideally "we" can be replaced with "you".  For example:
```suggestion
* You must unnest the JSON object by one level to extract just the model
```

> definition. We also want to remove the existing model ID in order to not have

Reviewer: Ditto:
```suggestion
definition. You must also remove the existing model ID in order to not have
```

> ID collisions when we import again. We do these steps using `jq` inline but

Reviewer: Ditto:
```suggestion
ID collisions when you import again. You can do these steps using `jq` inline or
```

alternatively it can be done to the resulting JSON file after downloading using
`jq` or other tools.
--

3. Import the saved model using `curl` to upload the JSON file to the {ref}/

> create-trained-models.html[Created Trained Model API]. When we specify the URL,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
create-trained-models.html[created trained model API]. When you specify the URL,
```

> we can also set the model ID to something new using the last path part of the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
you can also set the model ID to something new using the last path part of the
```

URL.
+
--
[source, bash]
--------------------------------------------------
curl -u elastic:changeme \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  -X PUT "http://localhost:9200/_ml/trained_models/flights1-imported" \
  --data-binary @flights1.json
--------------------------------------------------
// NOTCONSOLE
--

[NOTE]
--

> * Models exported from the {ref}/get-trained-models.html[Get Trained Model API]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Models exported from the {ref}/get-trained-models.html[get trained models API]
```

> are limited in size by the https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/

Reviewer: Not sure why this link is fully qualified. I think it should use {ref} same as others...
```suggestion
are limited in size by the
```

Author: Sorry, I didn't have the right {ref}'s for some links.

> reference/current/modules-http.html#_http_settings[http.max_content_length]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{ref}/modules-http.html#_http_settings[http.max_content_length]
```

global configuration value in Elasticsearch. The default value is `100mb` and
may need to be increased depending on the size of model being exported.

* Connection timeouts can occur when either the source or destination

> Elasticsearch is under load, or when model sizes are very large. Increasing

Reviewer: Is ES the right word here or should it be cluster?
```suggestion
cluster is under load, or when model sizes are very large. Increasing
```

https://ec.haxx.se/usingcurl/usingcurl-timeouts[timeout configurations] for
`curl` (e.g. `curl --max-time 600`) or your client of choice will help
alleviate the problem. In rare cases you may need to reduce load on the
Elasticsearch cluster, for example by adding nodes.
--

[discrete]
[[import-external-model-to-es]]
== Importing an external model to the {stack}

It is possible to import a model to your {es} cluster even if the model is not
trained by Elastic {dfanalytics}.

You can find an example of training a model, then importing it to {es} with
`eland` in the
https://eland.readthedocs.io/en/latest/examples/introduction_to_eland_webinar.html#Machine-Learning-Demo[eland machine learning demo].

> The example uses Python to train, save and import the model, however, you can

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The example uses Python to train, save and import the model. However, you can
```

> use any Client as long as the model conforms to the https://github.com/elastic/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
use any client as long as the model conforms to the https://github.com/elastic/
```
